{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red22\green21\blue22;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red214\green0\blue72;\red22\green21\blue22;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c11373\c10980\c11373;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c87843\c11765\c35294;\cssrgb\c11373\c10980\c11373\c3922;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0   \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 WEEK2
\f0\b0 \
*Topic* : Java Data Types, variables and access modifiers\
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Java Data Types 
\f0\b0 \
\
\ulnone Java Data Types are categorized in two groups. The primitive data type and non primitives Data type.  \

\f1\b A primitive Data types
\f0\b0  specifies the size and type of variable values it has no additional methods. It exist 8 primitive data types: byte, short, int, long, float, double boolean and char.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf2 \cb4 byte
\f0\b0 ,\'a0
\f1\b short
\f0\b0 ,\'a0
\f1\b int
\f0\b0 \'a0and\'a0
\f1\b long
\f0\b0 \'a0data types are used for storing whole numbers.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb4 float
\f0\b0 \'a0and\'a0
\f1\b double
\f0\b0 \'a0are used for fractional numbers.\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb4 char
\f0\b0 \'a0is used for storing characters(letters).\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb4 boolean
\f0\b0 \'a0data type is used for variables that holds either true or false.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \

\f1\b A non primitive data types refers 
\f0\b0 to objects that\'92s is the reason why it\'92s called reference types. The non primitive data type are created by the programmer that\'92s why it can\'92t  be numerated. Strings, classes, interface, Arrays are examples of non primitives data types.\
\

\f1\b \ul Variables 
\f0\b0 \
 \ulnone  \
	We have 3 types of variables : Local, Instances or Members and Statics.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 The\'a0
\f1\b Local variable
\f0\b0 \'a0is created inside the method never outside.and to run it we just\'a0 write the variable name inside the\'a0
\f2\fs24 \cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 sysout
\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \'a0brackets.\'a0
\f1\b The instance or Members variables and the Static variables\'a0
\f0\b0 are created inside the\'a0
\f2\fs24 \cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 class variables 
\f3\i\fs30 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \'a0
\f0\i0 to\'a0 write\'a0 the static variable we use the keyword\'a0
\f2\fs24 \cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 static
\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 , to run the static variable we write the variable name inside the\'a0
\f2\fs24 \cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 sysout
\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \'a0brackets.\
	To run the instance variable we need to create the obj without the objet the instance variable can't be run. to create the objet we use the name of the class\'a0
\f2\fs24 \cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 variable obj = new variable () ; 
\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 variable is the name of the class, new is the keyword to create the new objet.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Access Modifiers in Java
\f0\b0 \cb1 \ulnone \
\cb4 As the name suggests access modifiers in Java helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor , variable , method or data member. There are four types of access modifiers available in java:\cb1  \cb4 Default \cb1 , \cb4 Private\cb1  \cb4 Protected\cb1 , \cb4 Public. 
\f1\b\fs28 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb4 \
}